So we've talked about rust as a language
empowering everyone to build reliable and
efficient software.
And hopefully over the course of
the workshop, you've gotten a sense for
what that means.
So reliable means that basically,
either it's going to compile in which case
it's going to have very low overhead, or
if there could be a potentially serious
problem the compiler is
going to tell you about it.
Now granted, this can be a little bit less
convenient than languages that will use
something like a garbage collector
to take care of this for you.
But that gets into the second
piece of this which is efficient.
It's basically a language that's really
focused on having as little overhead as
possible so
that it can compete with like C and C++.
We've seen that it's memory layouts,
it's basically using the absolute bare
minimum they can possibly get away with.
And using these compile time
things to to compensate for that,
to make sure that you're not having
to do manual memory management,
to get that same level of
efficiency that you'll see and see.
We talked about Russ compiles to
either machine code or web assembly.
Honestly, the main difference between here
is just going to be what your size of your
sizes is going to be eight bytes, or four
bytes, depending on whether it's a 64 bit
or 32 bits target.But otherwise,
all the stuff that we learned in this
course today.You can use this
to build web assembly programs.
So we didn't get into
exactly how to do that.
But there's tutorials on doing that.
And it's honestly not a ton of work.
Talks about a bunch of different people
who are using Rust organizations,
of all shapes and sizes and they're using
it for all sorts of different things.
One thing that they all
do have in common though,
is that these are all use cases
where performance really matters.
And that gets us into sort of the the
three main reasons I would say you want to
use Rust which is speed,
performance and going real fast.
As you can see, Rust goes to some
pretty great lengths.To try and
give you an experience where you're
building reliable software, but
also that software goes as fast as
the hardware will let it just about.
And finally let's wrap up with
some additional resources that so
as I mentioned,
right Rust is a very big language.
I wanted to focus on basically helping
you out as much as possible with,
Baro checker errors because I know that's
typically cited as the most common source
of frustration and
confusion for beginners.
So I think it's like, the most
useful thing I could do for you and
a one day workshop, is to get you as
comfortable as you can possibly be with
a mental model of like what are these
Baro checker errors actually mean.
So that you're not,
looking at these things and
looking at all these new words and
sort of struggling with them.
But, there's plenty more to the language,
we talked about traits a number of times,
there are questions around that.Closures,
macros,
there's plenty of other stuff
in the language to learn but
fortunately.Most of the other stuff has
an closer analogues in other languages.
The stuff we learned today is really
the most rust specific stuff.
So when you encounter traits,
you'll probably be like, yeah,
this reminds me of something.
I've used another line language.
Same thing with macros.
Same thing with closures and
to some extent.
So, some additional resources.
Definitely if you go to
rust lang.org slash learn.
They have a complete, tutorial.
It's like very comprehensive, very well
written that has all sorts of that takes
you through the entirety of the language.
And hopefully the mental model that you
built up here would be useful when going
through that.
They also rust-lang.org/community which
has links to places you can like chat
and posts.
Ask questions.
Rust community is like pretty
famously beginner friendly.
There's a lot of people willing to
help people answer the questions.
I've definitely posted on
their Discord server and
gotten some help when I was starting out,
so definitely recommend that.
Also if you're looking for the language
server protocol extension that I was using
in VS code, this is where to get
that that's called rust-analyzer.
And finally, if you want to see a more
detailed example of a rust program.Inside
the lessons directory
in this workshops repo,
actually built a little static site
generator in rust, which is actually used
to generate the companion site
that goes with this website.
So if you wanna see a rust program
that is like not trivial, but
also not particularly big.
That thing does use some concepts that we
haven't talked about in the course of this
course.
I did add some comments in there so you
can kind of if you want to read through
that code, it'll give you a little bit
of a hint of what's going on in there.
With the things that we didn't cover here,
but that might be a nice little like, next
stepping stone, looking through that code,
trying to understand what it's doing.
And you'll definitely spot a lot of the
concepts we did talk about in the course
of this course.
And it's there's like a little nice meta
aspect to being able to read the code for
the companion website to the course.That
you wouldn't have been able to read
before going through the course.
Okay, and that wraps it up.
Thank you so much for attending and
if you have any last questions,
please feel free to ask.
>> I guess my question would
be kind of like next steps,
I definitely wanna take
a look at that lessons.
Directory you're talking about but
in terms of like project applications,
are there any.
Like for me I kind of struggle with
building a project if I don't really know
the full scope of the language so.
Is there anything you would recommend?
Like building that would really
help someone grasp rust and
rust in its entirety?
>> That's a good question.
To be honest, I don't know if there's
like any one project that would satisfy
that.Because there are so
many parts of the language that
are somewhat specific to certain niches.
For example,
there's like sort of a whole subset.
Section that all has to
do with concurrency.
If you ever hear about like people
talking about like a sync await and
stuff that was a big deal for a while and
still somewhat of a hot topic.But
that only really comes up if you're
doing stuff with concurrency,
which you might not care about at all
depending on what you're building.
So concrete advice.
I actually think if you go to
rustling.org/learn, they have,
it's not just like a tutorial.That's
like the main thing that's there but
actually they list a couple of other
different like ways you can go.
With your next step so some of them
they have like little exercises.
I think there might even be some
like project ideas in there,
haven't been there a while.But I would
recommend going there as the next step or
just looking through the static
site generator in the repo.
>> Yeah,
I'm afraid your element action book and
I really loved that that approach and
I realized that ,It was hard to do here,
because it's just such a large language.
So we just couldn't do
an inaction approach, really.
But yeah, I'm just wondering if you
have any specific sort of thing, like,
certainly I could look at rustling,
rustling learn, but maybe something
that's performance critical, or is there
any sort of thing like, involving.
Like web assembly or something that for
like a front end developer where they'd
say, you know what, I think rust would
be really good for this sort of thing.
>> Honestly, the main example
that comes to mind is games.
Games are always performance critical
because if your game is leggy,
it's not gonna be fun.
[LAUGH] And also, like games tend to be
like, the more performance you can throw
out them, the more stuff you
can have on the screen at once.
Not just graphics, but also like, number
of like characters or whatever else.
So I would say if you're into games,
that's probably a pretty
good place to look.
Because you can do some cool stuff there.
Also anything to do with like
simulations or visualizations.
Again, those are both areas where like,
the more things you have on the screen at
once like potentially.The more
valuable the thing is, but
you get constrained by
performance at some point.
So that's three areas that come to mind.
Yeah, by the way, I guess I should have
said that I'm the author of element
Action but also, if you wanna learn,
[LAUGH] Elm for me on front end
masters.I have both a beginner Elm
course and an advanced Elm course.
It's way easier than Rust.
[LAUGH] At least, that's my opinion.
But also that's like everybody's opinion.
Who knows both?
I would say.
>> Have you heard of Actix?
Is it still a good choice for
first web server framework?
>> Good question.
I have heard of Actix.
So actix is a way to do web servers in
rust.And actix is famous for two things
One is that it was basically being at the
top of like the tech and power benchmarks
for like fastest.Like web servers even
like beating out like c++ ones and
stuff like that, which was considered
a really cool milestone for Rust.
But it's also known for a second thing,
which is there was a lot of
controversy over how it did that.Because
in a lot of cases, it was using a lot
of like unsafe code and doing basically
things that are sort of like.
Not turning off the borrow checker
since you can't do that, but basically,
sort of doing things closer to manual
memory management.Using things that like
Rust lets you do, they're generally
intended to be used with mainly with like,
C type things.
And so people felt like it was, a lot of
people felt that it was sort of outside
the spirit of Rust to do it in this way.
There became a whole big
kerfuffle about that.
And I think the maintainer ended
up like walking away from it and
there was there was a whole.
There's a lot of drama there
that I'm not exactly up on.
But so long story short is,
I have not personally used it.
So I certainly would not recommend it.
But I do know that it has a reputation for
being very fast, but
also there was a big controversy.
So I guess I would say read up on that.
But there's plenty of alternatives
that are also plenty fast and
not controversial.
So maybe you might wanna look into.One
of those like work for example.
>> Someone's asking about
the job market for rust?
>> Job market for rust.
So I have a friend who recently
was looking for a rust job.
And I would say that the number of
job openings was pretty small, but
actually they did end up getting a rust
job so definitely seems possible.
But I, I would expect it to be
significantly smaller than death like this
really like the JavaScript job market,
which is of course enormous.
Having said that, I also don't know how
much that depends on your background.
Like I wouldn't be surprised if
a lot of rust jobs are involved in
taking like an existing C or
c++ code base.And trying to move it to
something more maintainable, like rust.
In which case they might actually expect,
like hey, maybe you don't have years of
rust experience, but maybe they are
looking for years of C or C++ experience.
Having said that,
that's pure speculation on my part.
I've never actually tried applying for
rust jobs.
So I can't speak from firsthand
experience when it comes to that..
Al lright, thank you all so
much for coming.